Lesson 4 or less than 1.1.0, this is module 1, unit 1, less than 0.
Solve your own problems.
Okay, this unit will be about solving problems.
This is an actual tangible problem identification, not to be confused with the
previous unit
which was an introduction.
Going over case studies, the trade-offs of idea versus execution and the underp
innings
of human psychology, right?
This is all to line up for this being the sort of main unit of this module 1
that is
ideation.
After this we'll go over deeper analysis.
Once you have an idea, going into seeing how much other apps in the category
make, scrolling
the app store.
But for now, let's talk about solving problems.
Okay, so previously I stated that the closer you are, or your product is to the
biological
imperative, the more likely you are to succeed.
Now the closer your product is to your own problems, some of the problems that
you experience,
the more likely you are to succeed.
Now this should be intuitive, this should be obvious.
When you build for other people, you do not fully understand the pain points.
You have experienced them yourself.
The more empathetic and emotionally intelligent you are, the more you can make
up for this.
But there is no better observer than the individual that experiences the
problem.
You rely on secondhand feedback, which is incomplete or misleading.
So if you try to practice empathy or speak to people that experience the
problem, you
are just one level of abstraction away from experiencing the problem itself.
Now this is very key for founders to understand.
Most people are very, very poor at articulating their problems and in fact have
actually no
idea what the serious or biggest problems that they experience in their life
are.
Now sometimes they subconsciously or almost always subconsciously know, but
make consciously
articulated as being something else.
This is also an issue with user feedback, which I will get into later.
So speaking to others is helpful, but it's best to solve your own problems.
Finally, you will lack the emotional urgency necessary to push through the hard
moments.
In the journey of building any product, there will be difficult moments where
it's easier
to take the path of least resistance and give up and move on to something else.
Now when you care about the problem, it will make it easier to push through and
continue
working on it.
I mentioned earlier that it's okay to build for money.
Do you want to build a product because it's going to make cash and at the end
of the day
you want cash?
That can simultaneously be true while it also being the case that it's better
to build around
things that you care about.
So if you do care about money, figure out how to build something that makes
money and
solves something that you care about.
Now a very, very, very important caveat is that an individual only experiences
so many problems.
So the next best option is to solve the problems that are experienced by your
close friends
or family.
Okay, let's get tangible.
When I was building a holly, the College of Marketplace app, the problem that I
identified
was that girls specifically were buying and selling clothing in group meets on
college
campuses.
Now I had some friends that experienced this as well and so the first thing
that I did
was I spoke to my friends, both guys and girls and just other girls that I knew
were
very active in these group meets to hear about the problems that they
experienced.
I thought that I was doing the right thing.
I was like, okay, this is how you solve problems.
Now there were a lot of other factors that made it difficult.
But one thing that we kept running into was I was constantly trying to put
myself in the
shoes of a girl who wants to figure out what's going to look best for her date
nights and
sorority parties and whatnot.
But that's not who I am and I've actually never really cared about clothing to
begin
with.
Now as we're working on it, senior year is coming to an end.
This is the spring.
I'm like, man, I kind of see writing was on the wall.
It's not going to work.
So I started thinking about other things that I want to solve.
And at this time, I actually began working on a few different projects.
One that I started working on was a sort of science-based hypertrophy maxim
ization software.
I actually know the founders of many of the most popular ones like Fitness AI
and whatnot
on the market.
And the algorithms that they, the ML, they're essentially solver algorithms
that they use
are pretty rudimentary as well as they don't account for some of the more
complex variables
in regards to maximizing hypertrophy.
Not to get too granular, but just to give an example, the way that a lot of
these software's
work is we have some threshold that we look to hit on weekly volume for the
number of
sets targeting chest.
Okay.
So, exercise like bench, they might call that one set for chest stimulus.
The issue with that is a compound exercise like bench also works your triceps
and your
shoulders or front delts.
But it also incurs significantly more fatigue.
So when you say that a set of benches, one set for chest and a set of tricep
extensions
is one set for triceps, that is an over massive oversimplification with regards
to comprehensive,
total fatigue accumulated as well as relative hypertraffic stimulus across
different muscle
groups.
So, that was one thing that I was working on.
And so that was a problem that I intimately experienced myself wanting to know
what I
can do in the gym to make sure that I'm maximizing my gains.
Now a problem that people very close to me experienced was what to say on
dating apps.
I experienced it myself too, right?
The point here isn't that I don't know how to talk to girls, but that sometimes
you receive
a message and you're like, "Hmm, what's the proper amount of flirtyness versus
straight
forwardness to respond to maximize my probability of developing a connection
with this girl?"
That's some people's objective.
Other people's objective is how to have sex with her, right?
We can call us beta-spade.
Different people have different objectives.
So given that chat GPT had just come out, we were like, "This can easily be
solved."
So we built an app where we can upload the screenshot, slide the spiciness,
essentially
according to whether or not you want to be a little bit more tame or more
straightforward
with your response.
Now given our deep knowledge, so I want to say our, I mean me and my co-found
ers, given
our deep knowledge of this topic, we were able to figure out the proper user
experience.
So what features actually matter to guys that are trying to figure out what to
say to girls
on dating apps, as well as what the correct distribution channels are going to
be because
we had seen that content ourselves.
So once again, the closer that you are to the problem, the easier that it will
be to
solve.
Now if you're not solving for yourself, try to solve for your friends, your
family, or
people very close to your demographic.
Okay, as I mentioned earlier, speaking to users, so this is touching a little
bit on
the future, but this is a very important note.
As you scale, user feedback will be able to inform your product direction, but
early
on, it's more likely to cloud your judgment.
The world is a deeply inefficient place.
I think that humans are deeply inefficient and unintelligent relative to the
intelligence
of the collective.
But when you venture off to try to solve a problem on your own, most advice is
going
to be noise.
If we think about this from a machine learning perspective, signal versus noise
, the reason
that the vast majority of entrepreneurs are not successful, or one of the key
reasons,
in my opinion, is the inability to distinguish signal from noise.
The act of coming up with a good idea, especially one that's novel and presents
significant
upside, is very, very, very difficult.
And you can't outsource that.
So you can speak to people and get their opinions, and you can use that as
overall data, but
don't expect others to do the work for you.
Just because someone tells you that they want something in your product doesn't
mean
that that's the right move.
There's a reason that Steve Jobs and Elon Musk do not go to daily focus groups.
They're artists.
They're more than artists, they're businessmen.
But being an artist is a component of building an amazing product.
So do not over index on others' opinions think freely and from first principles
.
So we have these overarching ideas about the fact that you should solve your
own problem.
Why do you actually identify them?
The short answer is there is no magic trick, but there are general frameworks
that I and
others apply that tend to work.
The creative act, a way of being, is an amazing book.
It's by Rick Rubin, who works with music artists.
He provides a lot of great frameworks here, so I would recommend that.
But personally, even before Rick Rubin, or before I had read his book, I spoke
extensively
about this, which is that I'm a massive believer in disconnection.
Go for a walk, run, hike, meditate, do whatever you want, do it for extended
periods for over
an hour.
I find that if I go on a 10 minute walk, my mind's still super cluttered from
everything
that we experience in day to day life.
If you really want to come up with good new ideas, you need to give your mind
room to breathe.
The same way that if you go and you start, you haven't played basketball in a
while.
You go start to shoot.
The first few minutes, you're rusty.
You got to work those muscles and build back those sort of mind-muscled
connection and
your body's muscle memory into remembering how to properly shoot with finesse
and in
a smooth manner.
I think that the same applies to disconnecting and giving your mind space to
breathe.
Within the book, he has a great concept, which is that if you want to come up
with truly
novel ideas, they don't come from within, but they come from the out, from
external.
They come from the universe.
You need to make yourself into somewhat of an antenna, an individual that will
receive
the ideas that permeate our universe.
Different people are going to be operating on different sort of wavelengths,
different
frequencies.
Given your demographic and what sort of group you belong to and who you are,
you will be
more receptive and have a higher probability of receiving some different subset
of ideas.
There's a reason that my apps are all kind of in the same domain.
RizGPT, talk to girls.
UMAX, scan your face, find out how attractive you are.
Cal AI, achieve your fitness goals, become more attractive.
This is something that I think I have pretty deep knowledge on, personal
development, self-improvement.
Even 10x, which I didn't actually mention during this, it was a recently failed
project
of mine, but 10x was designed to teach people how to learn different AI tools.
Once again, within the domain of self-improvement, this is something that I
very, very deeply
understand.
If you're a very religious individual, you might be more inclined to build
something
like Bible chat.
I consider myself religious, Christian, Presbyterian specifically, but I don't
think that I have
domain expertise significantly beyond that of the average Christian.
If you are a very studious individual, I didn't list this company here, but it
's similar to
Minnitz AI, Turbo Learn, a company that I am an advisor of actually, I pretty
much never
advised.
They're one of the only ones specifically because Sartic, one of the co-found
ers was my
CTO for UMAX.
Now Sartic and Rudy were very, very diligent studiers and test takers.
Like Sartic got a 36 on his ACT and had a 4-0, I think it was valedictorian of
high school.
So note taking specifically for education, high school college is a domain that
they
very, very deeply understand.
Hunter had been interested in social products for years before building NGL.
The quitter guys, right?
Connor and Alex were deeply, deeply addicted to pornography.
I'm sorry, that's a joke.
There are more so in the, in the, in the like your friends, right?
People of our demographic, they're young guys.
You guys are taking the point.
Oh, I don't even think I mentioned Raised during the case study.
I can't believe I missed that.
Anyways, Raised, built by Anastasia and Tamara Tran, Raised is actually no
longer on the
App Store.
So here I have a copycat from them.
They got banned.
But Raised, this was, you know, not coincidentally built by girls who
understand how important
tanning is to other girls.
That's an idea that guys would never come up with.
Me building UMAX, like most other software engineers are not going to see looks
maxing
at its absolute peak and also understand the Vision API coming out and being in
the correct
position to solve that problem.
So you should ask yourself, what are the problems that you intimately
understand?
What are the problems that you understand that other people don't understand?
What are the problems that you care about?
Do you care about self improvement?
Do you care about career?
Do you care about religion and spirituality?
Do you care about meditation?
If you have listened to what I've said throughout this unit thus far, you go,
well, I still
don't, you know, I still don't have any ideas.
My suggestion would be to become a more interesting person.
If you don't have things that you care about, if you look through life in a
very monotonous,
black and white lens, you're not going to be the person that ideas come to.
So study the fundamentals of human psychology, understand what your
expectations are for
the projects that you build, figure out what your problems are and the things
that you care
about and then use that in conjunction with disconnection, right?
Remove all of the other noise that exists within your life, take what I just
repeated,
these principles that I've taught up to this point, go for a long walk,
disconnect, remove
everything, keep that and let it ruminate.
I have no doubt that so long as you are an interesting person that experiences
anything
of any relative importance in life that you will begin to come up with new
ideas.
And beyond the disconnection, I want you to hold this in the back of your mind
and it
should begin to impact everything that you do.
Every place that you go, every interaction that you have, you should be
thinking and
any entrepreneur, to be honest, beyond just building up should be thinking
about this.
But I want you to look at it through the lens of like, what are the problems
that these
people experience in life and is there an app that can help them solve that and
help
them inch forward?
Okay, in the next lesson, I will dive into social media and forums.
So here I talk about kind of diving inside, receiving from the universe,
disconnecting.
But now we're going to go through social media and the idea of actually
stimulation and new
data, as opposed to removing everything else out, we're going to talk about
what's the
stuff that we should bring in.
And how do we go through Instagram, TikTok, Reddit, X.com and other forums to
identify
problems that people experience and have actually made obvious for us on the
internet.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.
[BLANK_AUDIO]